## JS Basics (Part VI)

### Types of Functions
- What is a function in Javascript?
  - A function is basically a set of instructions that are defined within a code block. These instructions carry out some sort of task, such as calculating a value. For a set of instructions to be called a function, it must take in an input and return some sort of output. The instructions are basically there to illustrate the relationship between this input and output. 

- In Javascript, a function is defined by using the following:
  - the <em>function</em> keyword followed by the name of the function (you get to specify this)
  - a list of inputs enclosed in parenthesis and separated by commas 
  - a code block {} that has the instructions
- Syntax:
  ```
  function myFunction(num1, num2, num3) {
    console.log((num1 * num2 * num3)/2)  
  }
  ```
  - We wrote a function here that takes three parameters (inputs). The instructions of the function says to print the result of the product of those three inputs divided by 2. 
- Once you declare a function the way we did above, <em>we also need to make sure to call/invoke it</em>. (declaring a function does not actually execute it). Here is how you call a function:
  ```
  myFunction(2,5,8);
  ```
  - We called our function by writing the name of the function and specifying the values of the inputs. In doing so, we are running the function. Our expected output should be `40`. 

- What is a function expression?
  - The aforementioned examples discusses how to declare and call functions. JS Functions can also be created by function expressions, which is when the function keyword is used to define a function inside of an expression. (Read more about expressions vs. statements [here](https://medium.com/launch-school/javascript-expressions-and-statements-4d32ac9c0e74)).
  - The cool thing about declaring functions inside of expressions is that the function does not need to be named, thus it can be anonymous. For example, our `myFunction()` function from earlier can be written like this:
    ```
    const myFunction = function(num1, num1, num3) {
      console.log((num1 * num2 * num3)/2)  
    }
    ```
  - In this case, we are assigning some function to a <em>variable</em> called `myFunction`. Invoking this variable also invokes the function.
- Names vs Anonymous Functions - when to use what
  - There are a number of pros and cons in using either named or anonymous functions even though the functionality of both works exactly the same.  
    - PROS of named functions:
      - more understandable and accessible 
      - better debugging experience - names of functions are kept in stack traces and call stacks so it makes it easy to identify what functions are causing errors
      - easier to reuse
    - PROS of anonymous functions:
      - allows functions to be easily passed as arguments to other functions
      - Immediately Invoked Function Expressions ([IIFE](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/IIFE))
      - allows recursion (when created with a name)
    - CONS
      - stack traces will be clouded with "anonymous" which makes it more difficult to trace the error 
    **It is becoming common practice to have some sort of naming even when you use anonymous functions**
  - HOISTING
    - Named functions can be hoisted whereas function expressions cannot. Read more about hoisting [here](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Hoisting)

- Other ways to declare functions:
  - Arrow functions
    - compact way of writing the traditional function expression
    - syntax:
      ```
      //one parameter
      param => expression

      //two parameters or more
      (param1, param2) => expression 

      // if the expression has multiple stamements, then it is enclosed in {}
      (param1, param2) => {
        statement1
        statement2 etc.
      }
      ```
    - to see how to transform a basic function expression into an arrow function and also, different examples of arrow functions, please click [here](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Functions/Arrow_functions).


